DOC-1699/DOC-1702: Fix tables and formatting in Console metrics page & Remove "Database metrics not collected during resharding" article (#2198)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/rs/clusters/monitoring/console-metrics-definitions.md

         /rs/clusters/monitoring/console-metrics-definitions.md

---

> The Redis Enterprise Software admin console shows metrics with information about the performance of the cluster, node, database, and shard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Redis Enterprise Software admin console shows performance metrics for clusters, nodes, databases, and shards.
```

## Standard metrics

| Metric | Components measured | Description | More information |
| ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| Connections | Cluster, Node, Database | Number of connections used to access the database |  |
| CPU usage | Cluster, Node | Percent usage of the CPU |  |

> | Evicted objects/sec[^1] | Database, Shard | Number of objects evicted per second | Objects are evicted if:<br><ol><li>The database reaches its memory_limit</li><li>The [eviction policy]({{< relref "/rs/databases/memory-performance/eviction-policy" >}}) is not configured to `no-eviction`</li><li>The dataset keys are compliant with the selected eviction policy. For exmaple, with the `volatile-lru` eviction policy, Redis evicts expired keys.</li></ol> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Evicted objects/sec[^1] | Database, Shard | Number of objects evicted per second | Objects are evicted if:<br><ol><li>The database reaches its memory_limit</li><li>The [eviction policy]({{< relref "/rs/databases/memory-performance/eviction-policy" >}}) is not configured to `no-eviction`</li><li>The dataset keys are compliant with the selected eviction policy. For example, with the `volatile-lru` eviction policy, Redis evicts expired keys.</li></ol> |
```

| Expired objects/sec[^1] | Database, Shard | Number of expired objects per second |  |
| Fork CPU usage | Database, Shard | CPU usage of Redis child forks |  |
| Free disk space | Cluster, Node | Remaining unused disk space |  |
| Free ephemeral disk space | Cluster, Node | Remaining unused disk space on the ephemeral path |  |
| Free RAM | Cluster, Node | RAM available for system use |  |

> | Hit ratio | Database, Shard | Calculated as number of operations on existing keys out of the total number of operations | `number_of_ops_on_exsiting_keys` / `total_ops` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Hit ratio | Database, Shard | Calculated as number of operations on existing keys out of the total number of operations | `number_of_ops_on_existing_keys` / `total_ops` |
```

| Incoming traffic[^1] | Cluster, Node, Database | Total incoming traffic (in bytes/sec) to the database |  |
| Incoming traffic compressed[^1] | Active-Active | Total incoming compressed traffic (in bytes/sec) to the database |  |
| Incoming traffic uncompressed[^1] | Active-Active | Total incoming uncompressed traffic (in bytes/sec) to the database |  |

> | Latency | Database | Latency per operation | The graph shows average, min, max and last latency values |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Latency | Database | Latency per operation | The graph shows average, min, max, and last latency values |
```

| Main Thread CPU usage | Database, Shard | Percent usage of the CPU by the main thread |  |
| Memory limit | Database | Memory size limit of the database, enforced on `used_memory` | Used memory does not include:<br><ol><li>Fragmentation ratio</li><li>Replication buffer - By default, set to 10% of used memory and is between 64MB and 2048 MB.</li><li>Lua memory limit - Does not exceed 1MB.  |
| Memory usage[^1] | Database | Calculated as used memory out of the memory limit | `used_memory` / `memory_limit` |
| Ops/sec | Cluster, Node, Database, Shard | Number of total operations per second | Where operations means:<br><ol><li>read operations</li><li>write operations</li><li>other commands operations</li></ol> |
| Other cmds/sec | Database | Number of other commands per second | For example: PING, AUTH, INFO |

> | Other commands latency | Database | Latency per other command | The graph shows average, min, max and last latency values |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Other commands latency | Database | Latency per other command | The graph shows average, min, max, and last latency values |
```

| Outgoing traffic[^1] | Cluster, Node, Database | Total outgoing traffic (in bytes/sec) from the database |  |

> | Pending writes max | Active-Active | Maximum number of write opreations queued |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Pending writes max | Active-Active | Maximum number of write operations queued |  |
```

| Pending writes min | Active-Active | Minimum number of write operations queued |  |
| RAM fragmentation | Database, Shard | Ratio between the used (allocated) memory and the physical RAM that is used. |  |

> | Read misses/sec[^1] | Database, Shard | Number of read operations (per sec) on non-existing keys |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Read misses/sec[^1] | Database, Shard | Number of read operations (per sec) on nonexistent keys |  |
```

> | Read misses/sec[^1] | Database, Shard | Number of read operations (per sec) on non-existing keys |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Read misses/sec[^1] | Database, Shard | Number of read operations (per sec) on nonexistent keys |  |
```

| Reads latency | Database | Latency per read operation | The graph shows average, min, max and last latency values |
| Reads/sec | Database | Number of total read operations per second | For example: GET |
| Total CPU usage | Database, Shard | Percent usage of the CPU |  |

> | Total keys[^1] | Database, Shard | Total number of keys in the dataset (not including replication, even if replication enabled) | Calculated as the sum of all keys of all master shards. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Total keys[^1] | Database, Shard | Total number of keys in the dataset (not including replication, even if replication is enabled) | Calculated as the sum of all keys of all master shards. |
```

> | Used memory[^1] | Database, Shard | Total memory used by the database, including RAM, Flash (if enabled) and replication (if enabled) | Does not include:<ol><li>Fragmentation overhead</li><li>Replica replication buffers at the primary nodes</li><li>Memory used by Lua scripts</li><li>Copy On Write (COW) operation that can be triggered by:<br><ul><li>A full replication process</li><li>A database snapshot process</li><li>AOF rewrite process</li></ul></li></ol> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Used memory[^1] | Database, Shard | Total memory used by the database, including RAM, Flash (if enabled), and replication (if enabled) | Does not include:<ol><li>Fragmentation overhead</li><li>Replica replication buffers at the primary nodes</li><li>Memory used by Lua scripts</li><li>Copy On Write (COW) operation that can be triggered by:<br><ul><li>A full replication process</li><li>A database snapshot process</li><li>AOF rewrite process</li></ul></li></ol> |
```

> | Used memory | Database, Shard | Total memory used by the database, including RAM, Flash (if enabled) and replication (if enabled) | Does not include:<ol><li>Fragmentation overhead</li><li>Replica replication buffers at the primary nodes</li><li>Memory used by Lua scripts</li><li>Copy On Write (COW) operation that can be triggered by:<br><ul><li>A full replication process</li><li>A database snapshot process</li><li>AOF rewrite process</li></ul></li></ol> |

Reviewer: Should the footnote also apply to this one?

Author: Yes, it should. Fixed in cb911da.

> | Write misses/sec[^1] | Database, Shard | Number of write operations (per sec) on non-existing keys |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Write misses/sec[^1] | Database, Shard | Number of write operations (per sec) on nonexistent keys |  |
```

| Writes latency | Database | Latency per write operation |  |

> | Writes/sec | Database | Number of total write operation per second | For example: SET |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Writes/sec | Database | Number of total write operations per second | For example: SET |
```

> [^1]: These metrics are not collected during [shard migration]({{< relref "/rs/databases/configure/replica-ha" >}}). If you view the database or shard metrics while resharding, the graph will be blank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^1]: These metrics are not collected during [shard migration]({{< relref "/rs/databases/configure/replica-ha" >}}). If you view the database or shard metrics while resharding, the graph is blank.
```

## Redis on Flash (RoF) metrics

These metrics are available for [Redis on Flash (RoF)]({{< relref "/rs/databases/redis-on-flash" >}}) databases.

### Measured metrics

| Metric | Components measured | Description |
| ------ | ------ | ------ |
|  % Values in RAM | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Percent of keys whose values are stored in RAM |
|  Flash bytes/sec | Cluster RoF, Node RoF, Database RoF, Shard RoF | Read+write bytes per second on flash storage device |
|  Flash fragmentation | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Ratio between the (logical) used flash memory and the actual physical flash that is used |
|  Flash IOPS | Cluster RoF, Node RoF | Rate of Input/Output operations per second on flash storage device |
|  Flash KV ops | Node RoF | Rate of operations on flash key values (read + write + del) per second |
|  Flash ops/sec | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Rate of operations on flash key values (read + write + del) per second |
|  Free flash | Cluster RoF, Node RoF | Free space on flash storage |

> |  RAM dataset overhead | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Percentage of the RAM limit that is used for anything other than values, such as key names, dictionaries and other overheads |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  RAM dataset overhead | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Percentage of the RAM limit that is used for anything other than values, such as key names, dictionaries, and other overheads |
```

|  RAM hit ratio | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Ratio of requests processed directly from RAM to total number of requests processed |
|  RAM limit | Database RoF | RAM limit in bytes |
|  RAM usage | Database RoF | Percentage of the RAM limit usage |

> |  RAM:Flash access ratio | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Ratio between logical redis key value operations, and actual flash key value operations |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  RAM:Flash access ratio | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Ratio between logical Redis key value operations and actual flash key value operations |
```

> |  Used Flash | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Total RAM used to store values in Flash |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  Used Flash | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Total RAM used to store values in flash |
```

> |  Used RAM | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Total size of data stored in RAM, including keys, values, overheads and including replication, if enabled |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  Used RAM | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Total size of data stored in RAM, including keys, values, overheads, and replication (if enabled) |
```

> |  Values in Flash | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Number of keys with values stored in Flash, not including replication |

Reviewer: Off the top of my head, I'm not sure if the admin console capitalizes "flash" in the actual metric names, but the descriptions have some inconsistencies around the capitalization of flash storage.
```suggestion
|  Values in Flash | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Number of keys with values stored in flash, not including replication |
```

|  Values in RAM | Database RoF, Shard RoF | Number of keys with values stored in RAM, not including replication |

### Calculated metrics

You can calculate the following RoF metrics with [Measured metrics](#measured-metrics).

- RoF average key size with overhead

    ```sh
    avg_key_size = (ram_dataset_overhead * used_ram)
                    / (total_keys * 2)
    ```
- RoF average value size in RAM

    ```sh
    avg_ram_value_size = ((1 - ram_dataset_overhead) * used_ram)    
                        / (values_in_ram * 2)
    ```

> - RoF average value size in Flash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- RoF average value size in flash
```
